and hello welcome to another funky
marketing episode today i have a
pleasure uh to do an episode with a dear
friend of mine sam dunning uh i've been
a guest on his podcast we've been going
back and forth a group
you know organizing this episode and
today we're going to talk about crafting
a website that converts about
simplifying seo and should we actually
focus on seo in b2b or not at all
and here we go sam
welcome to the show my man hey lavender
yeah thanks for having me dude i love
that intro i was having a little dance
there good little jingle yeah
uh erin boss also told me uh i don't
know if it was her or uh
diane but you know lots of people have
told me that they are dancing to it and
then maybe i should keep them on the
screen while the intro is going on
good man good fun
so uh what's up man long time no here
what's new what's old
how are you doing these days
oh good cheers yeah just just ramping up
our company web choice uk.com ramping up
the podcast business growth show and uh
messing around on linkedin in between uh
designing and building websites and
crafting out seo strategies really
that's that's a typical day to day in
the life of sam dunning
sounds good sounds good so so tell me
why why
is the two of us talking about
you know building website that converts
seo and those kind of stuff tell tell us
a little bit about your background
yeah sure so um we can we can take it
wherever we want to go really i mean in
terms of um
kind of my background i've been
messing around with websites and seo
probably for a good 10 11 years now
um working with kind of all sorts of
businesses really smaller kind of
companies bridging up to enterprise
level
and
kind of started off really at this
company just being a jack of all trades
really getting chucked in to do a bit of
sales getting chucked in to build some
wireframes getting chucked in to do some
project management and then kind of
recently came on board like i said
recently probably two or three years as
one of the co-owners
and i've just just really rammed up
really kind of polish my own marketing
skills and you'll know the manager from
running a podcast that you get to
interview people that you want to learn
from steal their ideas integrate your
own ways of doing things and
yeah just i mean one of the main things
that we like to look at is actually
crafting marketing strategies namely
design and build of websites and seo
that actually drives revenue so we don't
care about vanity we don't care about
pleasing ceos or marketing execs we want
to
actually do things that drive results
namely generate qualified inbound
pipeline or generate revenue so um
that's that's what i tend to talk about
a lot on the podcast and
on here shows like this and on linkedin
so yeah keen to want to talk about
websites for whatever way you want to
take it yeah let's let's go so uh look
there is one thing that i'm
uh not seeing many people talk about and
it's like the the hyper growth company
the ones that are the most successful in
that
didn't focus on building the new demand
they were creating products or services
in the field and there is the existing
demand and when we look at it from that
perspective like having the website that
tells the story and converts and
focusing on seo there are people looking
for what you are selling
like
those two components of the business
becomes uh more and more important and
there there's a saying that you know seo
isn't important in b2b i tend to agree
because like if you look at uh chris
walker if you look at others
we are all not saying you know that you
know you're saying that we are not
focusing on seo but
distributing content
is actually helping the seo you know we
might not focus specifically on seo but
we are doing it just not saying what do
you say about it
completely disagree um so
finally finally
so i actually yeah i had chris walker on
our show business growth show a while
back and whilst i i say there's two
angles to this the man just so i'm all
definitely definitely at least two
yeah at least
but i'm all for demand generation right
i mean we run the podcast we do a lot of
organic linkedin stuff we do youtube so
we're doing all these different bits and
pieces to educate ideal clients in our
case on websites and seo but if you're
your business whatever your sector is
sharing useful educational pieces of
media text posts
videos podcasts whatever that is so
when someone eventually needs your
services you've given them so much value
so many helpful tips educational pieces
that you're the only choice in their
mind so building up that demand strategy
that makes sense but
that's a long term play
and that's all about creating demand
um so it's not quick it's not click your
fingers grab some leads you're away it's
a long term strategy but on the flip
side
especially if you're a startup or if
you've got some resources you've got
some cash in the bank why not capture
demand that's already there
so
this is for people that aren't
necessarily going to know your company
or know your brand so with demand gen
people are going to know your business
of course because you've been
liaising with them on whatever channel
they've been consuming your content
whereas if we talk about search let's
say i am a b2b company i'm a maybe i'm a
b2b tech company maybe i need a new
piece of crm software for some reason i
always talk about crm don't know why um
but let's say i need a crm software for
a tech or fintech company
if i don't know a brand already i'm
probably gonna go to google search right
and type in like best crm for fintech or
fintech crm provider or something like
that and the chances are you're gonna
see a bunch of organic listings and
you're probably gonna see a review site
listing like g2 crowd or something like
that um and if you don't have a supplier
of choice following someone and doing
the demand generate you're probably
going to click either a google ad
or an organic search
so this is where seo comes into play or
google adwords so google adwords is a
quick quick way to get to market get in
front of idle clients choosing looking
at what you do or seo likewise getting
you to page one of organic search for
people who are actually searching need
your help right here right now they'll
click that and on the basis that your
website clearly shows what you do how
you can help and is easy to get in touch
then you're going to generate some
inbound leads
so
i say why not do both why not do matt do
demand gen build up your reputation get
qualified inbound that way long term and
likewise why not run google ads
why not run seo so you can capture
existing demand they might not know your
brand but it's your sales team's job to
then nurture these leads properly have
good conversations with them and show
them that you are if you are a good fit
the vendor to help them move it forward
why not do both there's not enough
conversation now about running both it
seems especially on linkedin people like
yeah i do demand jen forget about seo no
i want to drive more revenue for my
company i'm going to do both
i totally i totally agree
uh
you know i just finished writing a
strategy for a client that focuses on
both because i think like especially if
you are you know
a startup starting going to the to the
industry when there is an existing
demand
you need to do google ads to kind of uh
you know
get to more goals get more discussions
with people and get more people to buy
that people that are ready right now
they may not be the huge number but if
you don't
you know google ads on one hand we also
give you the chance to to see how big is
the existing demand
exactly well over there uh but just one
thing like um
seo is not something that can get you
results right away because it's a long
term play
i mean sure if you uh but i like to do
it like
combining with
google ads
and seo so writing an article which is
focusing on the bottom of the funnel
and then you know as you said listings
or uh you know comparing your product or
your services with the clients and
pushing that through the google ads
that will do the work because you know
sometimes it can get also in the in the
same position where uh your article will
be in a
couple of months if you do the seo right
away
yeah yeah and seo doesn't always need to
be article driven whilst
information pages can be kind of like
you say really well ranked and they can
have a useful topic that shares
insightful points and data statistics
and maybe answers questions that
prospects often come to you with so when
they search on google they find you but
likewise you can for some searches
bottom of the funnel searches where
people are directly sir and needing help
with the product they might link through
to your home page and then like i say if
your website convert
one thing before we move to the website
uh that i like to do as soon as i you
know build the website regarding seo
those kind of stuff see
which local directories are relevant for
my industry and subscribe to all of them
it gives you the instant boost in the in
the search engines and it makes you
visible over there you know and i don't
think many people do that and it's like
the easiest way to get some boost in the
search right away from the start
well yeah you're right that is a nice
tip um i think a lot of a lot of
businesses i've spoke to anyway and that
might just be from lack of understanding
of seo which is absolutely fine because
it's a complex beast it's not like one
thing you can read an article and just
understand seo and get page one so a lot
of a lot of times it needs to be
stripped back and if you're doing a
website design and build you probably
want to do it from the ground up and
what i mean by that is first and
foremost think about your keyword
research the actual search terms you
want to target your website and using
tools like semrush or ahrefs or uber
suggest or google keyword planner really
thinking about what keywords are going
to drive revenue so if that is things
like your crm provider best crm provider
or best accountancy software for small
businesses looking into these search
terms where people are typing them and
they're actually needing your service
right here and now and making sure
you're targeting kind of relevant ones
picking that on your keyword list and
then likewise maybe considering stuff
slightly higher in the funnel like where
people are comparing option a versus b
or then right at the top of the funnel
where people are thinking like how to
find the best x or what to consider
before doing y or t top tips for doing x
those kind of things so thinking of top
middle and bottom of the funnel of your
keyword research and then which we'll
probably chat about in a minute when you
actually design and build your website
making sure your website from a content
standpoint has information pages that
these search terms can link to that
actually covers all the common sales
questions around them covers objections
gives useful resources podcasts guides
infographics you name it and at the same
time your website from a technical
standpoint your metadata your meta
descriptions
what shows in the search results and
then your meta titles your um page
titles your image alt tags all the
technical bead and all the technical
points are in your page speed and all
this good stuff your mobile
responsiveness has to be thought about
from day one because if you're building
a website and then saying okay i want to
seo it now
you have to almost go back a step
because then you have to do your keyword
research you have to do your technical
points you have to re-out build out your
content in line with your seo strategy
so if you can do it from
the start
and then you can start thinking about
off-site things like getting on listings
building articles distributing them
building backlinks because a lot of
people just think seo is putting out
content and building links but there's a
lot more to it you need to start with a
solid foundation which is the design
build and content and technical
structure of your website
before you go full swing with offsite
off-page seo
yeah there is a lot in the structure of
the website uh you know before you even
building build it uh you know so so
let's go let's go from the start
like uh
let's say we we have a company we had
only a landing page so far we had some
traction now we want actually to build
the website
and you know to be more involved to
build the foundation
and then spread on true seo through
social media whatever so uh what are
some steps that we need to uh to take in
order to you know to before we start
building it actually
yeah so if
if this company wants to think about seo
then doing what we just chatted about
they're doing some relevant research
around the search terms the keywords
yeah
after the research we cover we
covered it yeah and the other thing is
on a different point on the research is
thinking about who this site actually
wants to attract
yeah so
like i post about on linkedin all the
time the worst thing you can do is if
you actually want your website to act as
your best sales person i mean websites
are live 24 7.
on the basis that you're marketing or
advertising it it can constantly be in
front of idle clients
so the worst thing you can do with your
site is design it for something that you
think looks cool or your boss thinks it
looks cool or your marketing team
ultimately we want to design it to
attract build trust with qualify and
convert our ideal clients
so it does the hard work for us filters
out the time wasters and brings us
qualified leads and that's what most b2b
companies want so and dc as well
so that said before you start designing
or building stuff let's say like you
said a man you perhaps you've got a
landing page or a very simple site in
place right now probably one of the best
things to do
is find out what's most important to our
customers so if we've got kind of five
or so great existing clients that we
enjoy working with that generate good
revenue that we can perhaps set up some
calls with and just say look what do you
like about our website right now what do
you dislike
what would what do you feel is missing
from this site and what is kind of these
kind of questions what's important to
you when looking at a vendor in our
spaces website and you'll get all these
interesting insights like for example
when i did it on ours they were like
well your site's missing a pricing page
one of the main things i want to do is
look at pricing um or they might say
you're missing case studies i really
want to see some of the companies that
you've helped or your contact forms way
too long you're asking me for 20 fields
i just want to put my name email budget
and get in touch so they'll give you all
these golden nuggets around what they
care about what they want to see on your
site what's most important to them what
they want to get out of a site like
yours
so that's that's just a quick snapshot
so kind of interviewing your best
current clients or current prospects to
understand what they care about seeing
on a vendor like yours website
and likewise with your messaging and
what you'll find is when you're talking
to prospects that you've probably
covered a bit in previous episodes in
the mandarins you'll understand the
terminology the actual language they use
so
when let's say we've done this research
um the first first thing if someone
clicks an ad or if they click off social
if they click your link on
google organic search they're probably
going to go to your home page see your
head um
your hero area or your banner area and
your headline right
so many b2b websites just have confusing
headlines that talk about how great they
are that they've recently got funding
that they're award-winning that they're
cutting edge
customers don't give a about this
stuff they want to know that you can
either make their life better make their
business better or solve the problem
that they care about um so there's
something that i when you get to
designing your homepage a guy called
donald miller coined something called
the grunt test and that is could
occasionally land on you
yeah get a caveman land on your site and
grant exactly what you do how it helps
them and how to get in touch within a
few seconds if they can't do that then
you're missing out on leads you're
missing out on revenue so having a
headline that really clearly shows like
for example ours is we build websites
and seo strategies that generate leads
and sales or
a clear strap line that shows what you
do or the problem you solve or how you
help and then a clear call to action
like request a consultation book a
strategy call so someone can quickly
take that next step if they want to
because a lot of people will if they've
clicked your ad or if they've come from
search they want to be able to quickly
take that next step so yeah that's
that's something to unpack before we go
into a few more yeah and that and that's
actually hero part of the website
uh tends to be one of the most important
things because you know you want
your
let's maybe get into a couple of things
that people do
uh from here for example as you as i
mentioned lots lots of them put
something like
uh you know
the most innovative and user-friendly
platform out there
or
you know um
i don't know and and like look
all of them know what what customers
want to want to get so usually
description is much better fit for the
headline that's uh
something that i
often see and it's like i don't know we
um with us you save at least
51.3 percent in cost increase uh i don't
know customer satisfaction those kind of
stuff
that's something that they want to see
when you enter the page not that you are
the most innovative and user friendly
platform those kind of stuff and also
like what i see
uh
lots of times because companies usually
use the templates of the website that
are designed to look beautiful not to
convert so like the cta goes below uh
when you below your screen
yeah so you don't see it right away and
you get the the extra nice hero you get
the description but then
you don't see the cta and you need to
scroll to click
and you know
that's the deal deal breaker sometimes
well that's it i mean most most of the
time if you're running ads or if you're
doing seo or if you're doing different
digital marketing campaigns the chances
are a lot of the time if you're if
you're looking at the bottom of the
funnel if you're looking to capture
demand rather than going on a demand gen
strategy people are probably comparing
two to three vendors right so they just
want to flip on your website quickly
maybe look at your homepage look at your
services look at your pricing and get in
touch so if it's difficult for people to
understand what you do how you can help
them and then take that action book that
strategy call they're just going to
flick to a different website a
competitor that gives them a better
experience
so
yeah really really important think make
it as simple as possible if you're not
sure about the language that your
customers use then just go for clarity
you can't go too wrong if you keep it
nice and simple this is what we do this
is how it helps people here's how to get
in touch you won't go too far wrong and
then you could adapt on that strategy
so
with that said um
making sure with this will help seo too
making sure your website loads really
fast is really really important so i
talk about this all the time speed is a
killer of websites
so if your website takes three four five
seconds to load any longer than that
you're going to be missing customers and
so i ideally you want to kind of one
second or close to that as you can and
you can use a tool called google page
speed insights literally copy and paste
your link and it will tell you your page
speed on mobile and pc and it'll give
you some tips to speed up um but yeah if
your website loads slowly people will
get frustrated your bounce rate will be
high and then people again just gonna
head to a competitor because you've
really annoyed them and it's probably
harmed your brand reputation as well so
it's something that you you may not even
know so if you check this page feed now
it's like five seconds or more then you
might be wasting money you might be
throwing ad budget down the drain and so
that's something you want to check
straight away
and then yeah looking at your messaging
on your home page
also thinking about mobile view but yeah
we can chat about that in a sec
yeah yeah uh so one thing i think uh we
can get into is we we talked about the
structure of the website
and you know there is important that in
in three clicks
at least you know at least not at least
but in most three clicks they get to to
the cta and to the point when they want
to go on the website so it means
navigation to the website how they slide
from page to page
needs to be uh
things before they build the website so
let's talk a little bit about the
importance of that
in terms of navigation and ctas yeah
because i think i think uh you know
looking at especially now the
sas websites and tech dev companies
websites like
you get lost in the website
you you get lost and you cannot go back
easily
you know and it means like you are just
digging your hole and covering yourself
up
you know
yeah yeah yeah so i i often say your
website can quite literally be your very
best or it can be your very worst sales
person depending on how how it's
designed how the content is how it's
structured and all this good stuff
because like i was saying earlier
because if you do it right it can
clearly show what you do how you help
but it can also
give a clear idea it can build trust
with people if we utilize social proof
we can chat about in a minute it can
qualify people through pricing pages and
then it can convert them guiding them to
book that next step whether that's a
call but yeah talking about navigation i
mean i guess there's a few things to
consider on mobile view and your desktop
view so most b2b sas company websites
for example you have a top menu nav
that's probably sticky it's what i mean
by sticky as the menu sticks to the top
of the page when you scroll down it
stays fixed to the top on your pc or
mobile and then usually in the top right
corner you've got some kind of call to
action book your strategy call book your
tailored demo book your free assessment
and then usually that call to action in
the top right corner is fixed and it's
usually like an orange button or
something like that that stands out on
the website so it's very very clear and
then typically that is in your banner
area in your hero area and likewise the
call to action is probably placed kind
of spread it out through information
pages so as you scroll down it's really
easy to click that main cta and then
book your call or whatever that next
step is um quick one on call to action
sometimes people aren't sure what to
call that call to action or sometimes
people have loads of different calls to
actions like throughout their site it's
like yeah yeah i'm not sure let's see
let's try two or three more right yeah
and it's kind of confusing so i'd
usually recommend to go clear and just
have the one or two ctas throughout and
just make them descriptive so if you're
not sure what to call it just explaining
the cta exactly what someone gets so if
that is book your 30 minute strategy
call or book your tailored consultation
and then then just deliver on it send
them to the calendly link or send them
to your inquiry form and
help them easily make the next step
a question here to increase trust and
increase the number of people that have
actually clicked the cda
what are some things that you recommend
people to do you know in terms of design
or how they structure
things yeah
so you want to think about social proof
um so think about think about your own
buying journey for example
so if you're going on a website and
you're looking for a product
if you've not heard of the brand before
and you find the one search or you find
them elsewhere you might be a little
skeptical
so you probably want to look at things
like
client reviews so whether that's like
some kind of review slider maybe you
want to look at accreditation so if
you're like gt rated or clutch rated
maybe looking at to weave those into the
design somehow or if you can get client
testimonial videos that's even more
awesome
so for an example like if someone clicks
your cta to book a call and then on your
book or call or your contact page you
might have an inquiry form on one side
and then left of that you might have a
testimonial from a client video
yeah yeah literally and that's like a
one minute snappy video and it says this
is the problem i came to them with this
is why i chose the company this is how
they help me overcome the results i
overcome the problem sorry this is what
life is like now so it's literally like
a one or two minute snapshot of exactly
what they came to you with like a common
problem how you help them overcome it
what life is like now revenue you've
gained all that good stuff or if you
can't do that maybe you can just have
one of your best client testimonials
next to the inquiry form and just all
these little things as people are
flicking through your site seeing
reviews seeing videos seeing
accreditations just layer up trust um
and then one of them might be the
tipping point that kind of thing yeah
i'm ready to speak to sales now so let's
let's book that call so those kind of
things help with the trust building
process
yeah and i think like if you look at the
the structure of the of the
let's say home page of the website or
any landing page
you know you need to uh to communicate
and know what are the biggest obstacles
for for the clients
or the customers that you are reaching
out and what is the biggest the biggest
obstacle you put it
in the upper place uh on the page for
example i don't know if there is if it's
a trust
then you put a video or testimonial
written one with a photo with a video
whatever it is higher up in the website
so you know you create the trust right
away when they come to the website also
what i think works really well i like to
do it
uh
to put the logos of the client uh right
under the cta because when they come to
the cta they can see the logos
so we visually it increases increases
trust in a way
yeah yeah like clients we work with and
that kind of stuff like you say with
with trusted logos and things like yeah
yeah and also depending on you know uh
what you are selling also some things
that you also mentioned like uh
you know from relevant websites uh if
you are i don't know
a development company and you have been
awarded so you can put those awards
certificates whatever it is whatever
increase the trust right
below the cta
sure yeah why not i mean test things out
as well because if you're running ads to
your site
and if you're spending money on
advertising or marketing then you can
you can test that's what works for
example you can tweak your your main
call to action so might right now your
call to action might be contact us
and then maybe try tweaking it on maybe
one of your landing pages or across your
main site to book your strategy call and
then you might see a two percent
increase in click-throughs you might not
but test it out
and then see what works i mean that's
the great thing about your website you
can constantly tweak things
using tools like analytics and hotjar a
heat mapping tool and survey tool you
can get really useful insights and
it's a living thing right so there's
always small tweaks that you can do to
copy to social proof
yeah and you know like uh i think lots
of times uh i see people that
you know have an idea
have a feeling that it will work but
they listen to too many people and then
when it comes to the website when they
build it it becomes vanilla in a way
because they listen to all those people
not to offend this one not yet he said
he says it's not good to have that many
texts on the website the other says
you know uh we need to do this the other
side we need to do that so
you know uh i have an example of when
we did the first funky marketing website
yep
the only thing that i wanted to do
is
to write all the things that i wanted to
do so people can read on a website that
the website basically becomes the big
article
and you know the
the guy i was working with he was like
no like look at the e-commerce looking
all the stuff people don't want to read
the emails are becoming shorter and then
i say okay let's try it out i uh install
the hotjar and look at what people are
doing and they were literally going line
by line with the mouse uh and you know
like reading
like you were doing with a book and i
said ah there it goes people are
actually reading so like the bounce rate
was going low
and the the time people spend on the
website is going up and i couldn't know
that if i
you know if i went with something else
but lots of people don't have that
chance that's why it's good to test
things out and you know not be afraid to
change things when you see something
that isn't working like
i recently worked with a company and
they said
like the website issued
basically they are the company that are
connecting hardware and software and
it's elementor but it's like basically a
template yeah and the pages are actually
not the pages they are the posts
that are you know merged to kind of look
like pages and i was like i don't want
to touch this it will break down if i
change anything so i told them what it
is and they say
oh okay i see that and i agree but it
will look unprofessional if we do the
second website in a year
right but it doesn't look uh
unprofessional when they have the not
functional website
yeah it's it's a funny thing right i
mean with that said
a lot of companies will
almost fall off their chair
especially b2b tech companies and sas
companies when you say look they'll they
might say look we want a 50-page site it
needs to do x y and z it needs to
generate leads for these kind of idle
clients
i thought start asking them about that
average order values and they're saying
like yeah i run annual our acv annual
kind of order value is 50k plus
like fine so we talk about the site we
say it's going to be kind of 10k plus
depending on kind of which way you want
to take it and then they're like why is
the website so expensive i said well
you've just told me that your average
order value is 50 grand plus the website
is a very small investment considering
you want to
kind of generate these high quality high
value order clients and it needs to
needs to really attract with them it
needs to build their trust they need to
qualify them and then send leads to your
sales team so it's um thinking about
your site not just as a
one-off thing
but the fact that a lot of your
marketing is actually going to go to
this site so if it doesn't do a good job
a lot of those visitors are just going
to go down the drain and your
competitors are going to start stealing
and enjoying your customers
so um yeah thinking about it as a
long-term investment and like you say
there's nothing wrong with doing a
template site so if you're a startup
bootstrapped you might not have many
funds you might not you might be cash
poor to start with which is fair enough
so you might just want to throw together
a cheap template but then as you start
getting clients then you might want to
kind of reassess the site like you say
take a more custom approach do some
customer research
do a bespoke design and build
really making sure that your site is
going to attract idle clients and
convert them so it depends on what stage
your company's at on kind of how much
you should get back and and it's a
changing it's a thing that you can
change you know you don't need to change
the whole website but you can adjust the
communication
the messaging because you know
our icp is not ideal when we start
you know and it changes it all and based
on that we need to change the messaging
when we change the messaging we need to
change it
okay seems like
okay
okay we're back we back yeah it happens
when you live stream the recordings
no worries man so something interesting
to add there so we talked about
social proof so we've talked about kind
of having clear messaging on your
homepage we've talked about using social
proof to build trust but another thing
your website is great for is qualifying
prospects
so
a lot of companies are quite frustrated
that the leads they're getting and this
might be your business like other
businesses too tuning in that they're
getting a lot of leads but the leads
they're getting their sales team are
getting annoyed because they're speaking
to them and they're not a good fit they
don't have budget they don't understand
what they do properly so your site can
be really good to actually qualify the
inbound that you get and one of the most
effective ways to do this is for your
pricing page
so a heck of a lot of businesses when i
say you need a pricing page especially
in b2b tech sas
don't want to share our pricing it might
put people off
it's still complicated right it's too
complicated
well i think we'll get less leads yes
you will get less leads but the leads
you get will actually understand where
your rates start so for example a lot of
sas companies might have product a
product b product c
um which is very simple to price up and
you might have kind of the key features
at the top and then lower down you might
have um perhaps some customer stories
some testimonials then you might have
some frequently asked questions at the
bottom of the page to handle common
objections that people bring up on sales
calls so you can really address those
and help people take the next step and
convert but another other more complex
like you said in the manager other more
complex um
tools or projects or software might say
it's really difficult to price up our
our software
well in that case you can give rates so
you could say look project a you'd be
typically looking at 10 to 20k project b
typically 30 to 50k or project c
enterprise level 100k plus and then you
can list some scenarios perhaps some
customer stories and that good stuff but
the good thing about it is yes you'll
get less leads but those leads will
actually most likely have the budget to
do business with you will understand a
bit more about the process and the type
of clients you help
so on the qualifications
step as well what you can do is perhaps
have information page on your your
process where you share the type of
clients you help typical problems that
you fix your solution typical time
frames and how you work with customers
the kind of interaction they can expect
and what a project management flow works
like with you
so this way you're just not aiming to
drive as much inbound as possible you're
actually aiming to qualify a bit more so
it's going to save your sales team time
or yourself time if you're a small
business and you're the owner that's
actually speaking to sales schools so
something to consider that
yeah i mean you want to make it easy for
those that are qualified to convert and
you want to may give more information
more education to those that aren't
qualified so they reach that stage and
all of those things needs to be on your
website
definitely right it's it's not just
something that where people are coming
that are already ready to buy to convert
you need to also do
that
as well and uh it comes down to pricing
well it's it's one thing that
you know especially
today in the tech world
as you said lots of companies are trying
to avoid you know can we not put that we
like to
we like to do custom deals well you know
what i do custom deals as well but i
still have the packages on the website
just so it makes it easy for me and for
a customer to kind of
see where are we in the price range you
know are they the right fit for us or
they aren't
or you know
or maybe the thing that i have done make
maybe can be good for the people
um
i started the pricing on a website with
uh
five thousand dollars
the first package
which was only it was only with
templates
and i did it because uh
that was the mindset i wanted them to
come to me
you know like but we are not getting
anything for five thousand dollars so
probably these guys are you know are a
big deal working with you know with
bigger companies those kind of stuff
will they work with us
you know and sure we will come up with
something custom but that's the mindset
i want them to come to me because like
coming from europe and going to the u.s
market
people in most cases don't trust us you
know they want to have more things they
want to talk with the clients they want
different stuff they go to the europe
because we are cheaper you know those
kind of stuff and i was thinking on ways
that we can actually
uh eliminate those things before we get
to the conversation
just something that i think lots of
companies are dealing with yeah yeah
positioning like you say
like sometimes pricing subconsciously
it's not not every buyer of course but
like you say if you're if you're at a
certain level and your pricing starts
from x up to y people might think well
these companies aren't this this
business isn't messing about that that
tears start at this rate so
yeah also related related to that one
more uh shorting i think what you can do
besides the thing that you said having a
video or testimonial when somebody goes
and clicks the to schedule a call
uh it might be a good thing you know to
have your icps like
we are we are working with companies
like three types of companies or
something like that is also like when
somebody comes to the contact us page
and they see that maybe they are not one
of those three maybe they will leave
you know yeah those kind of stuff helps
you actually
not get into too many conversations with
people that don't want what you are
selling
yeah yeah and another thing i found on
pricing is that a lot of companies find
them sending finding their sales team
especially sending out proposal
documents quote documents pdfs usually
and before you know it your life is all
day sending pdfs back and forth to
customers did you get my pdf oh no it
went to spam folder and most of the time
when you're sending out proposals all
they're doing is flicking through the
first pages to check you've understood
their problem and then skipping to the
pricing um
so
yeah most of the time you can actually
just email your pricing page depending
on the complexity of your project i'm
not saying you need to ditch proposals
are you still there manager yeah yeah
yeah i heard you i don't know what's
happening but
you know it
it tells me my wi-fi is okay everything
is okay but still you know
it's okay
um
so
one thing that i actually a couple of
things let's get into uh to a couple of
uh
things that people can do to become
relevant in the search as a company man
they implemented all those
little stuff that we tell them related
to the website what are some things that
they can do to you know uh be visible in
the search sure one thing is avoid the
you know
waiting
uh and those stuff activate google ads
and be present for the first day just so
you can kind of cover the gap while the
seo starts working but what are some
things that we need to do so it actually
starts working yeah sure so one one
thing that we were i was going to
mention anyway is also as well as
thinking of your site as a piece to
attract and build trust with and qualify
and convert idle clients also to educate
prospects so if people find you perhaps
from social or from a podcast or maybe
they find your own search for a higher
up the sales funnel search query or
something like that having pieces of
content on your site actually educate
buyers on your sector so perhaps you've
got a resources or a knowledge hub and
then maybe that has things like useful
blog articles maybe it has things like
podcasts maybe it has guides maybe it
has videos and other breakdowns and
resources so then you can start building
like a hub of content
and you can also gear that around seo so
as well as having information pages for
your main service and your products and
your locations that you serve
and but also putting out like you say
useful articles that are perhaps
answering common questions that buyers
come to you with that may be linked to
some of your higher up the sales funnel
search queries um so for example what to
consider before doing a demand gen
strategy might be a b2b one or what to
consider before investing in sas
accountancy software those kind of
things answer kind of early stage sales
questions that you might get and just by
creating really useful detailed
informative helpful content
that alone sometimes can rank on search
engines um and also if you're a more
local business or more niche business
and you only have a small amount of
competition or you only serve a small
geographic area just by doing solid
on-site seo having information pages for
your main services having useful
articles doing good technical seo making
sure your website loads fast is easy to
navigate making sure your metadata your
page titles image alt tags is all on
point sometimes that's enough to get
ranked if you follow the basics right
and do it in line with your keyword
research sometimes you can get ranked
but
yeah maybe maybe also like the google my
business stuff google my business for
sure yeah usually people forget about it
but i think like especially on a local
level
that's you know very important i mean
depending on what's your business about
but if you're going local for sure
definitely definitely good ad for local
seo definitely um but with that said so
that's all good if you're a small niche
industry only cover certain areas you
might start ranking but
if you are a larger company perhaps you
serve globally perhaps you are in quite
a competitive space
then the chances are you're going to
need to do all that on-page stuff but
you're also going to need to off-page
off-site seo which is where things like
you touched on demand you're looking at
kind of directory listings that you can
get on
and where you can submit your website
put a description about what you offer
and put a link back to your site on
but then you're probably going to want
to go down the quality link building
route so start creating kind of really
detailed informative articles on some of
the more bottom of the funnel searches
that you're targeting where people are
actually owned by intent ie
service type provider or best ex
provider or whatever that may be and
then looking to get those articles onto
these high what we call high domain
authority sites
or article submission sites with a link
a back link back to your site which over
time builds up your domain authority
and helps push your organic rankings up
in the the google search results so that
that's one of the trickier parts
actually being able to get on these
higher domain authority sites so some
businesses that perhaps don't have the
budget then a starting point that you
can consider is putting out articles and
distributing them on perhaps free sites
so whether that's wordpress blogs
whether that's medium whether that's
like blogger and there's a lot of kind
of article submission sites there that
are free and accessible where you can
still put articles out you can write
good content you can put a link back to
your site but then when you're getting
to kind of higher level you might want
to look at kind of more premium sites
that are industry relevant to what you
offer and when you're going to be
putting out detailed pieces
so a couple of questions
do you think that
today
podcasts are like the modern way to
build
links
it can be i mean it's
for my
for example you've probably you've
probably seen the same the manager
actually with your with your funky
marketing site so with my um
podcast like business growth.marketing i
haven't really done any seo but i've
been invited on quite a few podcasts
and just through the podcast i was
invited on because they put an article
for most of them and then put a link
back to the site that's
slowly giving us a ranking without
really bothering on seo for that podcast
site because we focus on most on
webchoice so yeah they definitely aren't
especially if it's like a quite a
reputable site that's been around for a
few years it's got quite a
established ranking on google and if
they create an article page for you
and you build a podcast strategy that's
actually a good free way to get yourself
out and about um but then there's other
ideas like perhaps collaborating on a
blog article together so maybe you find
an industry relevant
partner or a distribution partner maybe
someone that can add value to your
service or that you can add value to
theirs then you can contact their site
admin or their marketing team and just
say look i've got a really cool idea for
this article would you be up for
collaborating on it and getting a
backlink so there's a lot of creative
ways that you can think about whether
that's podcast collaborating on articles
teaming up for a video and then building
information page on their site and your
site and then linking back to each other
in return for kind of a quality backlink
yeah exactly and i mean uh
while i was doing seo as well like at
the beginning of my career
there is one thing because we had local
local clients based in canada
automotive industries or car repair shop
auto repair those kind of stuff
and you know thinking of how we should
actually build
links on a local market
you know um
it's like building relationships like
who are the people that you want to you
know to be connected with to be linked
with you don't want some you know uh bad
domains bad websites spammy ones
on a local level you don't want to be
connected with somebody that the whole
city hates for example like you know it
can be people from different industry
from different
uh you know
niches
but
they need to be relevant they need to be
relevant for the community they need to
be relevant for google
as well and you want to have links
links towards them yeah and that's it
and they've got to be safe as well like
you don't want to link your rights and
you don't want to hop onto fiverr.com
download or buy a thousand backlinks for
five pounds or ten pounds because whilst
it might give you a short term boost
long-term if google catches wind of it
google finds out you could get penalized
or your site can even get blacklisted so
you've just got to be
careful on some of the strategies you do
when it comes to off-page yes yeah yeah
i was i wanted to ask you do you have
any advice because
we are seeing that youtube is becoming
the relevant thing in the in the in the
google search engines and uh you know
most of the times if you now google uh
something
you come up with relevant uh
link from youtube
as well so i think linkedin is good from
bran for branding
yeah but it it's like the whole
structure of the youtube seo
is a little bit different than google
but still very relevant
yeah i'm i don't claim to be a youtube
seo expert so my knowledge on that side
of things is fairly limited but it's
okay it will come back
but what i would say is i've started
doing this a little bit on my podcast
just as a test
so i've started some of the because what
we tend to do is do one guest episode a
week and then one solo episode a week
and then what i do with the solo episode
is i tend to now
just bring up common questions i get on
sales calls and then just do like a
short five to ten minute minute video on
this so then they're searchable in
google so if someone types at the video
might come up or someone types on google
might come up but then i can also point
prospects to it so if i get a sales call
and they say what's the manager and i
just point them to this podcast episode
or if they say what are your what is
your process for building a website
point them to this other video i've
built so i'm literally slowly building a
collection of resources so people can
it's searchable so it can rank on search
engines but it's also useful
so you don't have to spend 20 minutes on
a call you can just
ping someone on an email
i love it i love it i i had
here on the call uh mike vignette who is
now
from from linkedin he's back he's back
yeah yeah yeah but uh you know it's it's
kind of he told me i asked him you know
like
where do you get business now when you
are not on linkedin he said from youtube
i got all the things from two links on
youtube
and uh all the business comes from those
two links
and uh i was recently we are renovating
our youtube channel and actually for the
first time investing in it because like
i said we have more than 400 videos and
we are getting from youtube let's
let's try to fix it
and uh
what i found out is that the way you
name your articles
your uh your videos needs to be a lot
different than it is on google sure you
need to have the keywords and those kind
of stuff in the
in the headline inside the first
paragraph of the
description in tags
hashtags everything but still it needs
to be a clickbaitish
because
you want to rule people to actually
click
click on that thing and if they click
then youtube rolls out and starts doing
uh you know its thing
yeah that's that's kind of where i got
the idea actually because mike like you
said he mentioned that he got a lot of
business from youtube and he said look
think about searchable content so it
kind of makes sense right creating
content that's going to answer questions
that you get most days on sales calls so
then you can point people to it it makes
your life easier but if it's searchable
at the same time you can generate
inbound leads from it it's kind of a
no-brainer and then you can repurpose
them like we do into podcasts and
all that good stuff maybe make a blog
article of it so it's really useful
evergreen seo content
exactly uh you know i don't know if you
guys are doing that we were doing that
from the start but now i don't know why
we are not doing it but you know when we
record an episode of the podcast
post it on youtube post it on uh you
know on all the audio platforms yeah and
then embed the links into the
website page into the article however uh
do you call it uh and basically share
that link where you have the links to
the youtube to the audio platforms uh
maybe some uh you know uh
outlines or a couple of things from the
episode main points
share that
and that will do the work for the for
the seo from another perspective
yeah i've not tried it that much to be
fair um
podcast and youtube promotion is if
anyone have if you crack youtube manager
let me know because i've we get we get
fairly decent downloads on the audio
podcast but youtube is one i struggle
with so i'm really trying to
see here i i have the guy
who
gave me the feedback and now i want to
see what will happen and then i'll call
him to the
to the podcast to share things right
it'll be good we'll be good but uh but
sure alexander asked which is uh is the
guy working with some uh big youtube
channels here in the region
and my go to go to guy for for that so
uh
cool man
yeah i i found out that there are lots
of tools that are there and this we can
use so man uh
we are
nearly the end uh
of the of the time so tell me one thing
that people that you want people to take
away from this and tell me where to find
more information about you about what
you guys are doing about your podcast
and all those other stuff yeah
appreciate it man so i guess the one
takeaway is to
actually
design your website i guess instead of
just thinking of it as a basic tool but
if you actually want your site to
generate business
to like we talked about qualify
build trust with educate and convert
idle clients think about designing it
for them to start having more
conversations with idle customers
existing customers prospects
understanding what they really care
about so the common problems they come
to you with what they actually want to
see on a vendor like your site and then
doing that building your copy building
your pages around that thinking about
the seo points thinking about the
conversion points the best practices
we've chatted about and thinking about
as an investment rather than just an
expense thinking about as an investment
that can improve over time it can rank a
rank on google it can generate inbound
and it can really help your business
when it's done right
so that's that's probably my parting
gift but yeah otherwise thanks very much
for having me on if you want to connect
with me on linkedin at sam dunning and
like you say i run run a podcast called
business growth show marketing podcast
we share actual website and marketing
tips with guest interviews each week
otherwise if you're perhaps frustrated
that every time you search for your
product or service on google you're
seeing your competitors above you and
they're stealing your traffic and your
customers um or perhaps your website is
failing to convert your hard-earned
visitors
into a steady flow of qualified sales
leads give us a shout it's
webchoiceuk.com
yeah man that's that's the cta i want to
hear
thanks thanks for being here thanks for
investing time uh man i'll have you
at least one more time on the show so we
can get deeper into into some of the
topics uh
guys go back to the beginning of the
episode we went back and forth on lots
of stuff uh there are some small gems
inside the episode uh get all of them
uh then reach out to sam if you need uh
further explanation about those stuff
uh or start a conversation and involve
two of us on linkedin that's also a
possibility and always for the end what
we say here is
don't forget to keep it funky
bye bye guys bye bye sam